## NAME

add-wme - Add a working memory element

## SYNOPSIS

**add-wme**_ _id_** **_[**^**_]_attribute_** _value_** [_+_**] 

* * *

## DESCRIPTION

This command adds an element to working memory and returns the timetag
of the wme. In effect, Soar's working memory is surgically altered by
this command. **add-wme**_ adds a new wme with the given _id_**,
_attribute_**, _value_**, and optional _preference_**. The given
_id_** must be an existing identifier. The _attribute_** and _value_**
fields can be any Soar symbol. If *****_ is given in the _attribute_**
or _value_** field, Soar creates a new identifier (symbol) for that
field. If the _preference_** is given, it can only have the value
**+**_ to indicate that an acceptable preference should be created for
this wme.

add-wme is often used by an input function to update Soar's
information about the state of the external world.

## EXAMPLES

This example adds the attribute/value pair "message-status received"
to the identifier (symbol) **S1**_:

    
    
    **add-wme S1 ^message-status received**_
    

This example adds an attribute/value pair with an acceptable
preference to the identifier (symbol) **Z2**_. The attribute is
"message" and the value is a unique identifier generated by Soar. Note
that since the **^**_ is optional, it has been left off in this case.

    
    
    **add-wme Z2 message * +**_
    

## WARNINGS

_This command is inherently unstable and may have weird side effects
(possibly even including system crashes).**_ For example, the chunker
can't backtrace through wmes created via **add-wme**_. Removing input
wmes or context/impasse wmes may have unexpected side effects. _You've
been warned._**

## SEE ALSO

**remove-wme**_

