<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content=
"HTML Tidy for Linux/x86 (vers 25 March 2009), see www.w3.org" />
<title></title>
</head>
<body>
<h2>NAME</h2>
add-wme - Add a working memory element
<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<b>add-wme</b> <i>id</i> [<b>^</b>]<i>attribute</i> <i>value</i>
[<i>+</i>]
<hr />
<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<p>This command adds an element to working memory and returns the
timetag of the wme. In effect, Soar's working memory is surgically
altered by this command. <b>add-wme</b> adds a new wme with the
given <i>id</i>, <i>attribute</i>, <i>value</i>, and optional
<i>preference</i>. The given <i>id</i> must be an existing
identifier. The <i>attribute</i> and <i>value</i> fields can be any
Soar symbol. If <b>*</b> is given in the <i>attribute</i> or
<i>value</i> field, Soar creates a new identifier (symbol) for that
field. If the <i>preference</i> is given, it can only have the
value <b>+</b> to indicate that an acceptable preference should be
created for this wme.</p>
<p>add-wme is often used by an input function to update Soar's
information about the state of the external world.</p>
<h2>EXAMPLES</h2>
This example adds the attribute/value pair "message-status
received" to the identifier (symbol) <b>S1</b>:
<pre>
<b>add-wme S1 ^message-status received</b>
</pre>
<p>This example adds an attribute/value pair with an acceptable
preference to the identifier (symbol) <b>Z2</b>. The attribute is
"message" and the value is a unique identifier generated by Soar.
Note that since the <b>^</b> is optional, it has been left off in
this case.</p>
<pre>
<b>add-wme Z2 message * +</b>
</pre>
<h2>WARNINGS</h2>
<i>This command is inherently unstable and may have weird side
effects (possibly even including system crashes).</i> For example,
the chunker can't backtrace through wmes created via
<b>add-wme</b>. Removing input wmes or context/impasse wmes may
have unexpected side effects. <i>You've been warned.</i>
<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<b>remove-wme</b>
</body>
</html>
