This file contains some troubleshooting information for Soar 8.5.2.

If this file does not resolve your problem, please send email to:
	soar-group@lists.sourceforge.net	



________________________________________________________________
Contents:	
1. I've installed Soar but none of the start menu links work!

2. "Cannot find package Soar" when trying to create an agent.

3. "Tcl84.dll not found" or "Tk84.dll not found"

4. When I double-click on the VisualSoar jar file, it pops up an error box that 
says it can't find the main class and is exiting?  What gives?

5. When I create an agent, Tcl complains about not being able to find the 
BWidget 1.7 library.  I'm pretty sure Tcl is installed.  What's up?
----------------------------------------------------------------




________________________________________________________________
1. I've installed Soar but none of the start menu links work!
----------------------------------------------------------------

Unfortunately, the Windows installer silently fails to install if you do not 
have administrator privileges.  If you can't get administrator privileges, 
uninstall and re-install changing the installation directory to something like:

C:\Documents and Settings\Your Username\Soar\Soar Suite 8.5.2

...where "Your Username" is your login name.

________________________________________________________________
2. "Cannot find package Soar" when trying to create an agent.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Possibility 1: Wrong version of Tcl.

The most common cause of this problem is that the wrong version of Tcl is 
installed.  This version of Soar requires Tcl 8.4.6 (it may also work with later 
versions).

The Windows distribution actually includes the correct version of Tcl, so as 
long as you use the batch files that are included to start Soar, it will use the 
version of Tcl we included. If you are trying to run the Tcl files directly, 
then it will use whatever version of Tcl is registered with the OS (the version 
included with Soar is NOT registered with the OS).

On other platforms (i.e. *nix, Mac), make sure that you have installed Tcl 
8.4.6.  Some unusual versions of Unix may have to get the source and compile it 
themselves.

If you can't tell what version of Tcl is installed on your machine, there are 
instructions in INSTALL.txt on how to install ActiveTcl.

Possibility 2: Soar is not compiled.

If you only installed the source code or have removed any of the binaries at 
some point, you may get this message.  Reinstall or follow the instructions in 
the INSTALL file to build the binaries.

Possibility 3: Wrong location of Soar is specified.

If you are trying to run an application like Eaters or TankSoar, it is possible 
that the application is looking in the wrong place for Soar.  The applications 
we distributed with Soar are set up to look in the right place, but if you have 
moved Soar or the applications, you may need to edit these files:

Eaters: The file init-eaters.tcl specifies the location of Soar on the line 
beginning with "set soar_library".  It is specified as a relative path, although 
you can replace this with a full path.

TankSoar: The file init-tanksoar.tcl specifies the location of Soar on the line 
beginning with "set soar_library".  It is specified as a relative path, although 
you can replace this with a full path.

________________________________________________________________
3. "Tcl84.dll not found" or "Tk84.dll not found"
----------------------------------------------------------------

Possibility 1: Tcl not properly installed.

Wish, the program which starts Tcl (and is used to run Soar, Eaters and 
TankSoar), expects these dlls to be in the same directory as it is.  If they are 
not (i.e. Tcl is not properly installed), then there will be problems.  Try 
reinstalling Tcl.

If you can't tell what version of Tcl is installed on your machine, there are 
instructions in INSTALL.txt on how to install ActiveTcl.

Possibility 2: The dlls are not in the search path.

If you are trying to run an application which has Tcl compiled directly into it 
(i.e. soarside, which is part of SGIO), then these dlls need to be in the PATH 
environment variable.  The Soar installer for Windows should have done this for 
you. If you installed ActiveTcl, then the installer should have done this for 
you.  If you are manually installing Tcl, then you may have to do this step 
yourself.

__________________________________________________________________________
4. When I double-click on the VisualSoar jar file, it pops up an error box
that says it can't find the main class and is exiting?  What gives?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

A:  For some reason, certain Java installations are configured incorrectly to 
launch Java applications in jar files.  We are not exactly sure why this 
happens.  To fix the problem, you'll need to edit your registry.  If you don't 
feel comfortable editing the registry, you could also just create a text file 
whose contents are:

javaw.exe -jar VisualSoar.jar

and save it in the same directory as "start-visualSoar.bat"

Otherwise, open up Regedit and find the following key:

HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\Applications\javaw.exe\shell\open\command

Its current value will probably be something like this:

"C:\j2sdk1.4.2_01\bin\javaw.exe" "%1"

Add a "-jar" between the 2 quoted items and a "%*" to the end.  In the above 
example, you would change it to:

"C:\j2sdk1.4.2_01\bin\javaw.exe" -jar "%1\" %*

That should allow you to launch VisualSoar by double-clicking the jar file.

__________________________________________________________________________
5. When I create an agent, Tcl complains about not being able to find the
BWidget 1.7 library.  I'm pretty sure Tcl is installed.  What's up?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you got to this error, Tcl is probably installed correctly, however, some 
packages of Tcl do not include the optional BWidget library needed for the new 
Tcl-Soar debugger.  If you run Linux, look for a bwidget package on whatever 
distribution you use and install it.  On Windows, try (re)installing ActiveTcl. 

If you're still perplexed and can't find a BWidget package for your Linux 
distribution, follow the instructions for installing ActiveTcl in the 
INSTALL.txt file.
